---
layout: post
title: About me, my academic interests and this blog!
---

I am a  25 year old university graduate. I studied for 6 years. I have a first class honours in history and politics, a graduate diploma in law, and have successfully completed the legal practice course. I took part in a number of extra-curricular programmes alongside my studies, some i cared about, others not so much. But that wasn't the point - the point was to make me look better on paper than everyone else. In theory, I did everything right. I worked hard, got my qualifications, and made sure that I entered the professional world with a plethora of certificates behind me. 

I now work 40 hours a week and earn £15,000 a year. 

Had I known what I do now, I can say without a shadow of uncertainty that I would do it very differently all over again. Had I known that the real average starting salary of a graduate (rather than the ones you hear about from the minority of the most prestigious employers) is £18,000, I might not have found the prospect of a degree all that beneficial. Had I known that I would now be left with over £65,000 worth of debt over my head (including post graduate study) I might not have seen that as a smart investment. Had I known that i would be 25, living at home, and trying to figure out how I am ever going to be able to buy my own house … well, I think you get the point. 

My reality, I have found, is not exclusive to me. Research has shown that only 52% of graduates are employed at graduate level roles within 6 months of obtaining their degree. For every graduate position I applied for, i would be in competition with at least 22 other graduates; and the legal industry knows it. 

Law firms know that they can pluck out graduates straight from university, and promise them that after a short, reasonable amount of time in a firm you'll be offered the world. You'll be given the opportunity to get that training contract you've been preparing and working toward. You’ll be able to earn good money, enough to start building the life you pictured all through your degree and you'll be able to do work that actually means something in the process. 

I suppose for some people that's true. I mean training contracts do exist, but in the same way that lottery winners exist; it happens and it's entirely possible, just not very likely. I exaggerated for emphasis of course, but the point im making is that there's just too much competition. In 2017, 18,850 graduates applied for 5719 training contracts, and while a ratio of 3:1 graduates to training contracts doesn't sound too bad, it means that generally, ⅔ of all law graduates will be left behind each year. Left behind to stay in jobs that while aren't necessarily terrible, certainly aren't what they signed up for when they started their degree. 

Those left behind  get to work as legal assistant, fee earners, paralegals and just about any other job titles that serve as synonyms for “not quite a solicitor just yet”. They get to work in environments filled with nepotism and unprofessionalism. They get to work alongside colleagues who, with respect, are at the same professional level that they are only they didn't spend multiple years and tens of thousands of pounds to get there; begging the question was it worth it ? 

Is it worth getting a degree? Is it worth going through years of postgraduate training and spending a fortune to do so, without any guarantee of any real success? 

Well, like I said, I would do it all differently. 

And that's potentially the saddest part. If I could go back to before I started my degree, back to when I was full of excitement and anticipation about spending the next three years learning about things that would not only get me a career, but that I was passionate about, I would probably end up talking myself out of it. I would probably end up telling 18 year old me that while my university experience was going to be one of the most exciting, intellectually invigorating, and at times rewardingly challenging times of my life, the post graduate aspect of my university career was probably a mistake. 

I thought, like pretty much everyone around me, that I was going to charge out of postgraduate study and head straight into the legal industry and yes, as cliche at it sounds, change lives with my work. And while I'm learning that the reality of that turned out to be quite different, I am determined to change that. 

As disillusioned as I find myself becoming with the choices I’ve made, I am in absolutely no doubt that my undergraduate years were the best of my life. Not because of the friends I made (though they were definitely a perk) nor because of the evenings I might have spent in the student union across the way from the library. It was because for three years I got to live in an environment based solely around learning about the world. I had access to every resource, every ounce of information that i could want about any field or topic that I could think of. And for me, that topic was politics. I considered pursuing this as a career, but the more I studied and the deeper I delved, the more I realised that I was far more interested in criticising politicians than becoming one (and frankly, I think I’m much too detrimentally honest to be taken seriously in British politics in its current climate). 

This led me to law, and in my mind it was the logical choice. The things that I enjoyed most about politics were also the same things I liked about studying law. Not only do they both require an ability to critique and analyse a situation presented before you, but they also both entail having the ability to put forward a good argument and advocate for it passionately with the ultimate goal of helping people. I always knew that whatever I did when I finished university, It had to be something important, something that made some sort of visible impact in people's lives and so I was drawn to specialties like family law, housing law and employment law; the type of areas that are directly connected to the everyday lives of normal people. Unfortunately and uncomprehendingly for me (and for many of the British people I would argue), the Conservative government won the 2017 general election, and I finished my postgraduate study at the height of the draconian and ineffective Conservative austerity measures. Among a number of other catastrophic outcomes to this elections, cuts to Legal Aid in the areas I intended to work in meant that my career path had come to an almost crashing halt, and I had to rethink whether I could bring myself to switch to an area of law I wasn't really passionate about, or to go back to the beginning and remember what It was that kept me so inspired during university. 

The idea of politics and political discourse is often one of those things that people outside of academia get intimidated or bored by, which is problematic given that virtually every aspect of every daily life is governed by it. Every norm of society and every rule we follow exists because of a political act or decision that created it. Its intrinsic to human life and i think to be bored or intimidated or in any way disinterested in politics really shows how poorly we prepare people to meaningfully participate in the aspects of society that are specifically designed to be participated in.

We have to be scrutinous and critical of political figures and procedure, in order to ensure that those with the most power are held accountable in the use of it. We need to ensure that we do not end up with a population who are politically complacent or uninformed, and that not only basic political education, but also awareness and discourse are promoted and nurtured. We need to take an analytical look not only at political history, but at contemporary politics and political representation to ensure that those elected to possess power over peoples lives, are thoroughly answerable to those people. 

As such, I am extremely interested in developing my PhD proposal exploring the relationship in the UK between the mainstream media and the general public when it comes to political decisions. I believe that the mainstream media has an overwhelming amount of control over the electorate, and that this is reinforced at a systemic level. I want to really dissect this assumption and explore just how much influence the mainstream media possesses, and the extent to which the general public make accurately informed decisions during general elections.

I intend to use this blog as a method of developing a portfolio of writing to help bolster my applications to positions within academia. It will generally cover current political events and undercurrents within the UK, with the aim of summarising what's happening and critiquing why. That said, the scope of my blog is not limited solely to UK politics, and will aim to stretch a little further when necessary, so that these events can be compared to and contextualised within an international framework. I'm fairly certain that there will be an overwhelming theme of media representation amongst all of this. I’m looking forward to writing about this topic, and indeed everything that follows, and I do hope you enjoy the read.



Toni
